# 153. Exercise: Coding Part 2



## Introduction

Welcome back to the STM32 class focused on SPI Slave communication. In this session, we will be discussing the integration of a button code into our existing source file. The primary goal is to initialize a GPIO button and implement functionality to trigger SPI communication when the button is pressed.

## Code Implementation

### GPIO_ButtonInit() Function

Let's begin by copying the button-related code from the 'led_button' source file and organizing it into a function named `GPIO_ButtonInit()`.

```c
// 007spi_txonly_arduino.c

void GPIO_ButtonInit(void)
{
	GPIO_Handle_t GPIOBtn;

	//this is btn gpio configuration
	GPIOBtn.pGPIOx = GPIOA;
	GPIOBtn.GPIO_PinConfig.GPIO_PinNumber = GPIO_PIN_NO_0;
	GPIOBtn.GPIO_PinConfig.GPIO_PinMode = GPIO_MODE_IN;
	GPIOBtn.GPIO_PinConfig.GPIO_PinSpeed = GPIO_SPEED_FAST;
	GPIOBtn.GPIO_PinConfig.GPIO_PinPuPdControl = GPIO_NO_PUPD;

	GPIO_Init(&GPIOBtn);

}
```

### Debouncing

To address debouncing issues, a small delay of 200 milliseconds has been added after detecting a button press. This delay helps in stabilizing the button state before further processing.

```c
void delay(void)
{
	for(uint32_t i = 0 ; i < 500000 ; i ++);
}

while(1)
	{
		//wait till button is pressed
		while( ! GPIO_ReadFromInputPin(GPIOA,GPIO_PIN_NO_0) );

		//to avoid button de-bouncing related issues 200ms of delay
		delay();

		//enable the SPI2 peripheral
		SPI_PeripheralControl(SPI2,ENABLE);

		//first send length information
		uint8_t dataLen = strlen(user_data);
		SPI_SendData(SPI2,&dataLen,1);

		//to send data
		SPI_SendData(SPI2,(uint8_t*)user_data,strlen(user_data));

		//lets confirm SPI is not busy
		while( SPI_GetFlagStatus(SPI2,SPI_BUSY_FLAG) );

		//Disable the SPI2 peripheral
		SPI_PeripheralControl(SPI2,DISABLE);
	}
```



### Closing SPI Communication

It's noted that the code currently has a potential issue related to abruptly closing SPI communication by disabling the peripheral after sending data. The lecture suggests waiting until the last byte is transmitted successfully before disabling the peripheral. This will be discussed in detail in the upcoming lecture on closing SPI communication.

## Conclusion

The implemented code initializes a GPIO button, triggers SPI communication when the button is pressed, and includes measures to avoid debouncing issues. However, it's emphasized that the current method of disabling the peripheral might cause problems, and a more robust solution will be discussed in the next lecture. The code is ready for compilation and testing in the next session.