# 164. SPI Send Data with Interrupt API Implementation



## Introduction

Welcome back to the STM32 class lecture. In this session, we will be implementing SPI (Serial Peripheral Interface) Send Data with Interrupt. This functionality allows for the transmission of data with interrupts to enhance efficiency. Let's go through the steps involved in the implementation.

## 1. Tx Buffer Address and Length

Within the handle structure, we have previously created member elements to store the Tx buffer address and length. These variables will be utilized in the implementation.

```c
// Inside the handle structure
uint8_t* TxBuffer;
uint16_t TxLen;
```

## 2. Save Tx Buffer Address and Length

Save the Tx buffer address and length in the global variables.

```c
// Save Tx buffer address
TxBuffer = buffer_address;

// Save Tx length
TxLen = length;
```

## 3. Mark SPI State as Busy

Mark the SPI state as busy in transmission, indicating that a transmission is in progress.

```c
// Mark SPI state as busy in transmission
TxState = SPI_BUSY_IN_TX;
```

## 4. Define SPI Application States Macros

Define macros for SPI application states. These macros represent various states of the SPI transmission.

```c
// stm32f407xx_spi_driver.h
// SPI application states macros
#define SPI_READY          0
#define SPI_BUSY_IN_TX     1
#define SPI_BUSY_IN_RX     2
```

## 5. Enable TXEIE Control Bit

Enable the TXEIE (Interrupt Enable) control bit to generate an interrupt whenever the TXE (Transmit Buffer Empty) flag is set in the SR (Status Register).

```c
// Enable TXEIE control bit in CR2 register
SPI_Handle->pSPIx->CR2 |= (1 << SPI_CR2_TXEIE);
```

## 6. Transmit Data Handling

The actual data transmission will be handled by the ISR (Interrupt Service Routine) code, which will be implemented later.

## 7. Condition for Execution

Ensure that all the above steps are executed only if the SPI state is free or ready. Use an 'if' condition to check the state.

```c
uint8_t SPI_SendDataIT(SPI_Handle_t *pSPIHandle,uint8_t *pTxBuffer, uint32_t Len)
{
	uint8_t state = pSPIHandle->TxState;

	if(state != SPI_BUSY_IN_TX)
	{
		//1 . Save the Tx buffer address and Len information in some global variables
		pSPIHandle->pTxBuffer = pTxBuffer;
		pSPIHandle->TxLen = Len;
		//2.  Mark the SPI state as busy in transmission so that
		//    no other code can take over same SPI peripheral until transmission is over
		pSPIHandle->TxState = SPI_BUSY_IN_TX;

		//3. Enable the TXEIE control bit to get interrupt whenever TXE flag is set in SR
		pSPIHandle->pSPIx->CR2 |= ( 1 << SPI_CR2_TXEIE );

	}


	return state;
}
```

Reference: https://github.com/niekiran/MasteringMCU/blob/master/Resources/Source_code/Workspace/stm32f4xx_drivers/drivers/src/stm32f407xx_spi_driver.c

## Conclusion

This API is designed to be simple and efficient. It saves the pointer and length, enables the interrupt, and returns. The actual data transmission will be handled in the ISR when the interrupt is triggered.

In the next lecture, we will cover SPI Receive Data with Interrupt. The API for that will also be modified accordingly.